---
title: Word Choice
description: >-
  When writing in English, it’s important to remember not to be too repetitive
  in ideas, content, or, especially, word choice. We always…
pubDate: '2016-01-14T09:51:27.851Z'
categories: []
keywords: []
heroImage: '/blog-placeholder-2.jpg'
---

When writing in English, it’s important to remember not to be too repetitive in ideas, content, or, especially, word choice. We always encourage our English students to try and expand their vocabulary by reading on a regular basis — and it can be anything, from books to magazine articles… even a recipe book or a graphic novel! Knowing how to say one thing in many different ways is key when trying to enrich and develop your writing style.

Take the following phrase as an example:

> _There are two reasons why this book_ is important to me.

In most cases, simply replacing the word “important” with another colorful adjective could already boost your writing. However, considering the topic, “Describe a book you have read that is important to you,” the phrase in italics could be written in many other ways. Look at the following phrases:

> _…_ **_speaks_** _to me so deeply.
> …_ **_captured_** _my attention from the start.
> …_ **_plays_** _a significant role in my life._

When we talk about things or people that are “important” to us, we want to explain why they are — or were — necessary to make our lives better, or why we couldn’t live without them. Instead of trying to describe what the book is by using an adjective, the student can try to express **what the book does for him** by using more **active verbs**. In this manner, the underlying message is conveyed more strongly than before.